federalist 79
the judiciary continued
hamilton
to the people of the state of new york
next to permanency in office nothing can
contribute more to the independence of
the judges than a fixed provision for
their support
the remark made in relation to the
president is equally applicable here
in the general course of human nature a
power over man's subsistence amounts to
a power over his will and we can never
hope to see realized in practice the
complete separation of the judicial from
the legislative power in any system
which leaves the former dependent for
pecuniary resources on the occasional
grants of the latter
the enlightened friends to good
government in every state have seen
cause to lament the want of precise and
explicit precautions in the state
constitutions on this head
some of these indeed have declared that
permanent wide constitution of
massachusetts chapter 2 section 1
article 13 salaries should be
established for the judges but the
experiment has in some instances shown
that such expressions are not
sufficiently definite to preclude
legislative evasions
something still more positive and
unequivocal has been evinced to be
requisite
the plan of the convention accordingly
has provided that the judges of the
united states shall at stated times
receive for their services a
compensation which shall not be
diminished during their continuance in
office
this all circumstances considered is the
most eligible provision that could have
been devised it will readily be
understood that the fluctuations in the
value of money and in the state of
society rendered a fixed rate of
compensation in the constitution
inadmissible what might be extravagant
today might in half a century become
penurious and inadequate it was
therefore necessary to leave it to the
discretion of the legislature to vary
its provisions in conformity to the
variations in circumstance yet under
such restrictions as to put it out of
the power of that body to change the
condition of the individual for the
worse
a man may then be sure of the ground
upon which he stands and can never be
deterred from his duty by the
apprehension of being placed in a less
eligible situation
the clause which has been quoted
combines both advantages the salaries of
judicial officers may from time to time
be altered as occasions shall require
yet so as never to lessen the allowance
with which any particular judge comes
into office in respect to him it will be
observed that a difference has been made
by the convention between the
compensation of the president and of the
judges that of the former can neither be
increased nor diminished that of the
latter can only not be diminished
this probably arose from the difference
of the duration of the respective
offices as the president is to be
elected for no more than four years it
can rarely happen that an adequate
salary fixed at the commencement of that
period will not continue to be such to
its end but with regard to judges who if
they behave properly will be secured in
their places for life it may well happen
especially in the early stages of the
government that a stipend which would be
very sufficient at their first
appointment would become too small in
the progress of their service
this provision for the support of the
judges bears every mark of prudence and
efficacy and it may be safely affirmed
that together with the permanent tenure
of their offices it affords a better
prospect of their independence than is
discoverable in the constitutions of any
of the states in regard to their own
judges
the precautions for their responsibility
are comprised in the article respecting
impeachments they are liable to be
impeached from al-conduct by the house
of representatives and tried by the
senate and if convicted may be dismissed
from office and disqualified for holding
any other
this is the only provision on the point
which is consistent with the necessary
independence of the judicial character
and is the only one which we find in our
own constitution in respect to our own
judges
the want of a provision for removing the
judges on account of inability has been
a subjective complaint but all
considerate men will be sensible that
such a provision would either not be
practiced upon or would be more liable
to abuse than calculated to answer any
good purpose the menturation of the
faculties of the mind has i believe no
place in the catalog of known arts an
attempt to fix the boundary between the
regions of ability and inability would
much often or give scope to personal and
party attachments and enmities than
advance the interests of justice or the
public good
the result except in the case of
insanity must for the most part be
arbitrary and insanity without any
formal or express provision may be
safely pronounced to be a virtual
disqualification
the constitution of new york to avoid
investigations that must forever be
vague and dangerous has taken a
particular age as the criterion of
inability no man can be a judge beyond
sixty i believe there are few at present
who do not disapprove of this provision
there is no station in relation to which
it is less proper than to that of a
judge the deliberating and comparing
faculties generally preserve their
strength much beyond that period in men
who survive it and when in addition to
this circumstance we consider how few
there are who outlive the season of
intellectual vigor and how improbable it
is that any considerable portion of the
bench whether more or less numerous
should be in such a situation at the
same time we shall be ready to conclude
that limitations of this sort have
little to recommend them in a republic
where fortunes are not affluent and
pensions not expedient the dismission of
men from stations in which they have
served their country long and usefully
on which they depend for subsistence and
from which it will be too late to resort
to any other occupation for a livelihood
ought to have some better apology to
humanity than is to be found in the
imaginary danger of a superannuated
bench
publius